So since the last video I've gone ahead and changed the mix R.G. be known here to overlay.
And I think I'm getting a nicer mix between the two textures here.
I like the way we can see the creases there.
Now if I wanted to emphasize those creases a little bit more I could use a bump map and a map is nothing
more than a black and white image a greyscale image in which Blender's sees the white parts of the image
as something to push out and the black parts as something to pull in.
So medium gray in the image is just flat white pushes out black pulls in.
So what we can try is we could try and take this image here convert it to a black and white image and
the lighter parts will appear to push out and the darker parts will appear to push in.
So let's give that a try.
So here's that image of the painted shading here.
What I'll do is first of all convert the color to black and white so I'll press shift A and go to converter
and choose an R G B to black and white so will want to convert it first and then we're going to take
that value coming out of that G B node into the material output.
So I'm going to press control up arrow just so we can see this a little bit better.
And notice I've tried to match the color of the sockets for each of the nodes.
The color is the yellow sockets.
This BSD to the material output is green.
I've got a yellow socket here so I can take this and drag it and connect it to here.
Now here I have a gray socket a value and that can go straight into the displacement.
But if I do that I'm not going to have any way to control the strength of the bump so to do that lets
press shift A and bring in a math node.
And with this I can change it to multiply.
And now I can use the value of this node to adjust the strength of the displacement so I'll connect
this value to here and this value to this great socket here.
All right so I'll press control up arrow again.
And let's take a look at what's happened here.
We can see just a little bit of a difference here.
Now I'm in the rendered viewport shading and we can see just a bit of a difference if I click and drag
this a little higher lets drag it way up.
We can see that the dark parts here on our image are being pushed in and the brighter parts are being
pushed out.
So that's a little bit too much.
Let's take it down to maybe 1.0 and see how that works.
That's pretty good but it's still a little bit too much I think I'll take it down to maybe point eight.
Let's try that yeah I think that's looking pretty good.
It's giving the sense that this bag has some creases and folds in it.
And here let me pull this off so you can see the difference I'll pull that off.
And now you can see that before which is pretty good with just the paint going through into the color.
Now add this back and we can see we get just a little bit more of a bump there.
All right.
Well let's do that to the wood paneling back here if I select the wall.
Now here's our no tree for the wall.
If I did the same thing here I can press shift A and bring in a R.G. be too black and white node and
I'll bring in a math node.
I'll change the math no to multiply and now connect these up color to color or yellow socket to yellow
socket and the value to the value here.
Now let's take a look at the wall we currently have it at point five if I click and drag that way up
you can see that's that's a bit too much.
But you can see the effect that it's having.
I'll take it down to maybe one point though again.
Let's see how that works.
Yeah that looks pretty good it gives a little bit of displacement to the image so it feels like there's
some texture there.
Once again I'll just click this out so you can see the difference there is before and after.
So being able to add a little bit of bump is really helpful to giving the image a little bit more texture.
All right so let's say we have our image the way we want it.
Now let's go ahead and render this out.
I'll go back to the render panel here.
Make sure that my render resolution is at 100 percent I'll take a look at my sampling.
And currently my Rynders sample is at 128.
That may not be bad.
We can try it here and see how it looks.
I'll come up here and I'll click render and here it goes.
Now if you'd like to learn more about rendering and lighting and materials please check out Blendr 201
introduction to materials and lighting here at Blendr 101 dot com and there is our final rendered image.
I'll go ahead and come down here to image and save as image.
And now I can save it here to my hard drive.
I'll call this flour sack and I'll save it as a PNB.
There we go.
Well I hope this introduction to U-V mapping and texturing has been helpful for you.
I've certainly enjoyed it.
And please check out the other great blender tutorials here at Blender 101 dot com.
Well thanks again and take care.